# LSTMStock_Prediction
This project we are using data from Yahoo finance, we have imported the data of stocks named as **Tesla, Google, Microsoft, Amazon and Dell** respectively using **python**. 
Multiple parameters play important role in deciding the price of stock market including history of data and external affects such as **Politics, Pandemic, Company’s performance etc**. We don’t have any parameters to analyze external affects. 
We are using the 4 years of data for understanding the trend and patterns in the stock using graphical visualization. 
The price of stock is mainly dependent on many parameters but mainly dependent on parameters such as** Open, Close, Adj Close, and Volume in the history data.**
We have created multiple graphs using each parameter to visualize patterns and understand insights from the stock data. With the help of the graph, we can observe that around 2020 there is surge in the price and volume of all the stocks we are inspecting. 
Another useful insight we were able to find out was that with surge in volume results in the increase of the price of stocks. Along with that we also figure out the Month of the year there is surge in volume of investors and many more such insights with the help of graphical visualization.
These visualizations gave us good idea about parameters that can be useful for training our model to get more accurate predictions.

**A.	Stage 1: Raw Data**
In this stage, the historical stock data is collected from https://finance.yahoo.com/ using python library
!pip install -q y finance, 
import yfinance
We have imported the stock of Tesla, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Dell, Intel, Nvidia, AMD, PayPal, and, eBay. The real time historical data is imported in the model. 
**
**B.	Stage 2: Data Visualization****
	We have used Altair and MatPlotLib python libraries for visualization of data. Visualization gives us valuable information required for stock prediction. Also we have used this libraries for prediction of future stock prices.
import matplotlib.pyplot 
import altair
This libraries are very useful in visualizing and analyzing the information from the data.
**
**C.	Stage 3: Data Preprocessing and feature extraction****
Below are the steps we have performed in these stage are as follows:
1.	We have converted all the numerical data to the data type float and date to type Date and also removed unwanted symbols in the data such as “,”.
2.	In the next step we have applied Data Normalization on the data using MinMaxScaler method of python keeping the values of feature from 0 to 1. 
3.	After the dataset is transformed into clean dataset, the dataset is divided into training and testing sets so as to evaluate. We have used 70% of data as training sets and remaining as testing set. 
4.	Next, we have created the batches of data for more optimization and accuracy, we have two sets of data X and Y
#X – Each Batch starts with the next time i in the list and contains specified number of additional items.
#Y- Contains last item in each batch. After we reshape the data for normalization.
5.	In the last we select the features to be feed to the neural network from Date, Open, High, Low, Close and Volume.

**D.	Stage 4: Training Neural Network (LSTM)**
•	In this stage, the data is fed to the neural network and trained for prediction.
•	Our LSTM model is composed of Sequential input layer.
•	We have made two model
o	With only 1 LSTM Layer.
o	With 4 LSTM Layer in sequence with ReLU activation function.
•	After every layer of LSTM we have a Dropout layer to randomly sets input units to 0 with a frequency of rate at each step during training time, which helps prevent overfitting.
•	Followed by Dense layer with Linear Activation function.

In the last output is generated by the output layer The error or the difference between the target and the obtained output value is minimized by using back propagation algorithm which adjusts the weights and the biases of the network.

**E.	Stage 5: Analysis**
For analyzing the efficiency of the system we are used the Root Mean Square Error(RMSE). The error or the difference between the target and the obtained output value is minimized by using RMSE value. RMSE is the square root of the mean/average of the square of all of the error. The use of RMSE is highly common and it makes an excellent general purpose error metric for numerical predictions. Compared to the similar Mean Absolute Error, RMSE amplifies and severely punishes large errors.







